README.md, before:

# Software Sustainability and Open Source Hardware

Notes and links supporting an Open Source Hardware themed application to the SSI Fellowship scheme. 

The Fellowship scheme offers participants a £4K bursary, intended mainly to be used to organise or participate in workshops and events.

## Micro pitch

A series of [workshops](WORKSHOPS.md) bringing together research engineers working on tools for environmental sensor data analysis, and open source hardware and networking enthusiasts working on low-power, low-bandwidth micro devices. Discuss and document potential novel applications while simultaneously engaged in a hands-on prototyping exercises, with most of the workshop budget going towards a small repurposable kit per attendee. Workshops to run over the course of a week (likely in late Spring 2025) in three or four different locations across the UK.

## SSI scheme and context

* [SSI Fellowship programme 2025](https://www.software.ac.uk/news/ssi-fellowship-programme-2025-applications-now-open)

## Prior art 

### Workshops and seminars

* [Wave Farm residency](https://zachpoff.com/artwork/wave-farm-residency-2013/?highlight=hydrophone%20experiments) - 2013 New York State workshop by Zach Poff and N.B. Aldrich, lightweight sensor building, smartphone based
* [Wuthering Bytes / Open Source Hardware Camp](https://wutheringbytes.com/news/2024/open-source-hardware-camp-2024-programme-announced) 2024
* ["The Three Ingredients for Scaling-Up Water Sensor Networks: People, Platform, and Protocols"](https://digitalenvironment.org/cde-webinar-dr-scott-ensign-and-shannon-hicks/) - NERC seminar covering EnviroDIY / WikiWatershed, see below
  
### Labs and Networks

* [Openly Published Environmental Sensing](https://open-sensing.org/) Oregon State, College of Agricultural Sciences. "_From soldering stations to 3D printers to laser cutters, our lab provides the tools necessary for students, professors, and researchers alike to develop tools used locally and worldwide by the ecological science and engineering community._"
* [EnviroDIY](https://www.envirodiy.org/) - Stroud Water Research Center
* [Bristol Wireless](https://www.bristolwireless.net/) - Social enterprise to build a LoRaWAN/IoT backbone for Bristol, evolving from community wifi

### Sampling devices

* [Mayfly](https://www.envirodiy.org/mayfly/) data logger, "comprised of sensors for measuring conductivity, temperature, depth, and turbidity"
* [AudioMoth](https://www.openacousticdevices.info/audiomoth) low-cost, full-spectrum acoustic logger, ultrasonic frequencies, underwater plans

Commit message:

taking some notes in the SSI Fellowship seminar

README.md, after:

# Software Sustainability and Open Source Hardware

Notes and links supporting an Open Source Hardware themed application to the SSI Fellowship scheme. 

The Fellowship scheme offers participants a £4K bursary, intended mainly to be used to organise or participate in workshops and events.

## Micro pitch

A series of [workshops](WORKSHOPS.md) bringing together research engineers working on tools for environmental sensor data analysis, and open source hardware and networking enthusiasts working on low-power, low-bandwidth micro devices. Discuss and document potential novel applications while simultaneously engaged in a hands-on prototyping exercises, with most of the workshop budget going towards a small repurposable kit per attendee. Workshops to run over the course of a week (likely in late Spring 2025) in three or four different locations across the UK.

## SSI scheme and context

* [SSI Fellowship programme 2025](https://www.software.ac.uk/news/ssi-fellowship-programme-2025-applications-now-open)

_Notes to hit_: Better * for better research; reliable, reusable. Essential skills, communities of practise, "supporting the right people". 



## Prior art 

### Workshops and seminars

* [Wave Farm residency](https://zachpoff.com/artwork/wave-farm-residency-2013/?highlight=hydrophone%20experiments) - 2013 New York State workshop by Zach Poff and N.B. Aldrich, lightweight sensor building, smartphone based
* [Wuthering Bytes / Open Source Hardware Camp](https://wutheringbytes.com/news/2024/open-source-hardware-camp-2024-programme-announced) 2024
* ["The Three Ingredients for Scaling-Up Water Sensor Networks: People, Platform, and Protocols"](https://digitalenvironment.org/cde-webinar-dr-scott-ensign-and-shannon-hicks/) - NERC seminar covering EnviroDIY / WikiWatershed, see below
  
### Labs and Networks

* [Openly Published Environmental Sensing](https://open-sensing.org/) Oregon State, College of Agricultural Sciences. "_From soldering stations to 3D printers to laser cutters, our lab provides the tools necessary for students, professors, and researchers alike to develop tools used locally and worldwide by the ecological science and engineering community._"
* [EnviroDIY](https://www.envirodiy.org/) - Stroud Water Research Center
* [Bristol Wireless](https://www.bristolwireless.net/) - Social enterprise to build a LoRaWAN/IoT backbone for Bristol, evolving from community wifi

### Sampling devices

* [Mayfly](https://www.envirodiy.org/mayfly/) data logger, "comprised of sensors for measuring conductivity, temperature, depth, and turbidity"
* [AudioMoth](https://www.openacousticdevices.info/audiomoth) low-cost, full-spectrum acoustic logger, ultrasonic frequencies, underwater plans
